I'd like to introduce Melissa Turner and
her lovely assistant reduce a waxing
they're going to talk about j2ee made
easier everything about deploying j2ee
applications mac OS x server including
robotics applications thanks MA so at
this point I was supposed to make a joke
but Francois sort of beat you to the
plants about how after four years of
working with Hayes's for this
presentation I finally actually learned
something I've learned how to pronounce
his last name for years I'm obviously an
engineer i'm here today to talk about
deploying enterprise applications on mac
OS 10 not surprisingly i'm going to give
you in this session and introduction to
j2ee and jboss i'm going to discuss
deploying j2ee applications managing
j2ee applications once you've got them
deployed and I'm going to talk a little
bit about deploying without webobjects
applications in jboss what I'm hoping
you'll take away from this presentation
is for those of you who don't already
know what j QE is sort of a 30,000 foot
overview of what j2ee is bit of an idea
about the jboss and jboss architecture
some idea of how we've integrated jboss
with mac OS 10 how to deploy a j2ee
application on Mac OS 10 and how to
manage it j2ee what is j2ee a lot of you
probably heard this particular acronym
by now it's been around for several
years being heckled from down here what
is it platform for building multi-tier
applications it's standardized modular
components and basically it uses could
whoever is talking police toph it's very
distracting someone's down here is it
behind me
sorry of that basically the way j2ee
works is you have a container that
provide services that can be used by
multiple applications because there's a
lot of things you don't really need to
hard-code in every single application
you want to use say for example you want
to talk to a database or you want to
send or receive emails it's not the kind
of thing you should need to re-implement
every time you want to write an
application so you can offload that work
on to the container j2ee use in charge
is a set of interfaces and standards for
taking that kind of work off the
application developers hands it's moving
it into the container why do you care
about j2ee well it's one of the best
ways to well we think it's one of the
better ways to implement enterprise
applications so that it isolates you
from a lot of the work I just gave you
an example of how to do that and it also
insulates you to a certain degree from
your vendors I know one of the big
problems with buying or developing an
enterprise application is platform
lock-in you decide to go with one
specific vendor and you're stuck with
that vendor forever J to even attempt it
breaking that and letting you build your
enterprise application and deploy it to
any one of a number of containers
developed by any one of a number of
vendors you don't have to worry so much
about your vendor suddenly jacking up
licensing prices we don't know any
vendors to do that doing some of
technologies in the j QE area you've
probably heard of you have ejb JSP and
servlets is the big ones ejb is your
database or your business logic JSP and
servlets puts a web front end on it some
of the other technologies you'll hear
about jdbc jndi JMS there's more up
there forward-looking this stuff like
web services Jack sage a whole bunch of
other stuff this is mostly slide so
those of you who aren't familiar with
these technologies can scribble down all
the acronyms and go Google for them
later then moves us on to j by j loss is
an open-source j2ee container we think
it's one of the best ones out there
it's got a very very active community as
some of you may know and they are very
heavily involved in jsr process they've
helped write several specifications
they've driven this back for jsr 77
which is a management application or the
management interfaces we think that by
going with jboss we can leverage a lot
of their influence in the j2ee spare and
we think that's good for our customers
they have a very modular architecture
that out of the block if you choose to
enable it supports clustering and
farming and it's very easy to add new
services so you know if a year down the
road something new and important has
come out and you don't want to upgrade
your entire system you can just plug
that piece of a service in sort of works
like this they're built around what they
call the jmx bus this is basically a
communication and invocation wire you
plug individual services into it so
you've got a small start-up application
small start-up website all you really
need to do is serve some dynamic data
that cheese through you know get it
through CGI get it from webobjects you
get it from a number of places so you're
running along happily and then web
services comes along and somebody says
you've got to provide web services we
need web services we like web services
if you plug in access its diseases at
just the service doesn't disturb any of
the other architecture pop it in there
it is application gets a little bit
bigger a little bit more complicated you
want to start taking advantage from the
ejb features laughs what did i do
somebody changed praise left that don't
usually do this on stage you plug in ejb
jdbc anything you need as your
applications grow as you know new
response you've got new responsibilities
new needs you plug in more pieces if you
decide you don't need some of them just
as easy to take those pieces back out
what else do we know about jboss well as
i said they're an open source container
that means it's primarily written by
developers developers are really good at
writing code especially for stuff they
need but most of people who do this
are well really happy with emacs which
means they've got really lousy
deployment and management tools most of
these people work like I said in emacs
don't see anything wrong with keeping
track of 20 or 30 XML files in Emacs we
thought there was a better way to do
that which brings us to jboss on Mac OS
10 jboss is going to be part of Mac OS
10 we're going to be shipping from
developer tools deployment on Mac OS 10
server and we've integrated it with some
of our other tools on the client it's
going to be part of developer tools
package you'll get a JBoss developer
configuration which is jboss set up with
all the services to the developers
likely to need to program again and
we're going to give you some Xcode
templates for building j2ee applications
Years War straw files that kind of thing
for those of you who've already learned
under suming this is most of you at this
point poking around on the disks we gave
you on Monday it shipped in the sneak
peaks area developed previous ed a mac
OS x server it should be part of the
default install we're going to use it as
a replacement for tomcat on get around
to talking about that a little bit later
you'll get jboss will ship you multiple
configurations because we realize that
one configuration is not going to suit
everybody's needs get a management tool
and the deployment tool which Jesus will
be showing you later and we've
integrated with server admin so those of
you who know where my presentation last
year and part of the web object streusel
we've traditionally not been terribly
well integrated so with our jboss
product for trying to integrate into the
mac OS 10 general tools a little bit
more and for those of you who heard me
say that we're providing k boss is a
replacement for tomcat and panic because
they were using day box before nothing
important is change the biggest change
you'll see is that instead of a labeling
Tomcats from the web page you now enable
it's an application server page runs on
the same part it's still in library
concat and if you want you can still go
in and configure it to run standalone a
couple of things have changed that we
think are kind of impressive we're going
to be running a newer version shipping a
newer versions between Oh many many many
of you have been asking for a newer
version
and when you're running the jboss tomcat
configuration you'll be able to use our
tools to manage and configure it instead
of just having it on off checkbox you'll
have a little bit more control the other
configurations will be shipping our
stand alone which is the basic small
site configuration has concat web server
has ejv containers jndi few other things
corbel orb is in there if i remember
correctly and its port taught deployment
of applications all you need to do is
copy your j2ee application into library
jboss 32 deploy and if stay boss is
running it'll look there every few
seconds find that there's a copy or a
new copy if you upgrade on deploy if
necessary redeploy that new application
without you having to intervene we're
shooting also clustered configuration
cluster configuration is almost
identical to standalone configuration
except that well it's cluster support
each piece of Accession failover for
tomcat ports load balancing and its foot
supports automatically propagating
changes to applications or services to
all nodes in the cluster means that you
don't have to worry about upgrading all
the nodes if you're upgrading
applications you just drop it in one and
it will be propagated out to the rest of
those in the cluster we're all safe
shipping a net loot client configuration
this is sort of the while we want to
build a computing grid configuration you
can centralize your configuration on one
server and tell all of your jboss
instances to start or download their
configurations from that central play
gives you one location to manage a vet
netboot server here as a configuration
it's not really configuration but this
seems a good place to talk about it a
netbook server simply any webdav enables
web server for example apache with
webdav turned on on mac OS 10 pretty
simple to setup all you have to do is
copy the configuration that you want
distributed to all your netbook clients
into the apache document root tell all
the network clients where to go to
downloads or configurations and did
happen
and at this point of going to hand you
off to hey Zeus who's going to talk a
bit about the application lifestyle
cycle for jboss applications in jboss hi
everybody my name is mrs watson i learn
also to pronounce my last name today I'm
here to talk about before I go into the
form and tool I want I want to talk to
tell you how all the seeds j2
applications are laying out in a such a
way that the application lifecycle can
be taken care by different people and
with different skills also each one of
these stages can be handled by different
tools so the people in charge of each
one of the stages can do its job so
here's application lifecycle the first
thing is that you got a developer
developer is going to be in charge of
those develop developing your
application or your module so once you
have you use developer creating all
these modules they will pass it to the
assembler the assembler guy is in charge
of collecting all the parts and pieces
of your application because you could
have somebody some developer working
very hard in your servers and other he's
working in your ejbs and then you have
somebody who's collecting all these
modules and integrating them in one
application he will actually create one
unit this unit is actually a jar and we
have the special extension called ear so
now you have the dissembler depending on
your organization it could be the same
guy so the developers actual is
assembler who is getting you the ears
and now this app uses your ear you're
going to pass it to the deployer the
project has who is in charge of matting
the resources that your applications
going to need to those who are in your
application server so he Maps everything
and now he goes and deploys it you just
dump it on the your application contains
your application server
and now is administrated task to go and
look that everything that that that your
application is going to use either and
also it's going to monitor that your
application biosigns are strong and well
and then again if something goes wrong
they're probably going to call the
developer and it has to fix the things
and then this is the circle so in each
one of these pages we wanted to do
something for you to create your j-3
application yesterday we have an entire
presentation talking about what we do is
for the development and assembling part
today I'm just going to go to do a brief
recap of what we did so from Xcode what
we provide is three new templates now we
create we add a web module template and
ejb modules in play and enter an
enterprise applications in place so you
you can in fact with those modules as I
said and then wrap them everything up in
one application we are using to build
this and and and is becoming the facto
standard for creating the application so
we wanted to leverage that and not only
that it allows us to use other
technologies that are out there like a
chocolate that could create or generate
the interfaces that your application
needs and also the deployment
descriptors so for for the assembling
part well we are it a half percent of
your face and if you see next aquos
again XO place is an opera pen source to
that what it allows you is that you hint
in your source code which information is
going to be in your interfaces and
you're the prime of the scriptures if
you have some some experience with j2ee
you know that sometimes you spend a lot
of time not nouns on your code but
creating songs of files about the
interfaces that you need and can suffice
in tongues of deployment descriptors so
the idea is that you that we provide a
way for you to write the code hint
deployment the hint the X
engine and so the expectation engine
could go and create those files for you
so we have a way the benefits that you
get is that we have a central place
where you can synchronize your
deployment descriptors and your source
code and also synchronize all those
appointment descriptors so now we have
the developer a part in the family part
here is just a a an example of X outlet
as you can see is executing is just an
extension of Java dog and what we are
telling is just some hints of about like
for example this is going to be patience
a lesbian and then we just you run a
your build your application as a result
we create the final descriptors for you
and also we create all the interfaces so
now we're done with our the assembly
part and it's time to talk about the
deployment part so the first yo yo my
ass is why our interests in creating
such a tool well you know j-3
application has this a characteristic
that allows you to change the behavior
of your application a deployment time
the idea that you have that each
application we have a set of deployment
descriptors that are in in your
application if you change those
deployment descriptors you might change
the your application behavior in
different circumstances so at the
polling the scripture actually a way to
a declarative way to figure out which
services the container will impose on
your being so you can tell for example
to tell you to continue to use and a
specific data source on your application
is running on testing and then when you
want to deploy on production to charges
produce a completely different one and
you do this by changing this information
not in the application itself but rather
by clicking the deployment descriptors
so so far so cool right so this is
really great well if you think of all
the information that you have that you
can manage in this fashion you soon
realize that this becomes at another
trivial task
look old it only one has to go and look
all of the point of the scriptures and
all there is a the interrelationships
between those even in for the simplest
application to realize that just using
imax is not gonna get us anywhere so a
tool with a friendly you I becomes
necessary we decided to create one when
we're sitting down say well which
acknowledged should we use to create
this the soul well you know a one side
we have all these schemas and D CDs that
were modeling the accept the deployment
descriptors and then the other hand we
wanted to create an HTML based
applications but we didn't want to spend
a lot of time just constructing the HTML
pages with text fields that will
actually update the information in the
xml files so we say well why don't we
just work with the only capable of doing
that so we decided to do a web of weeks
application using direct with so not
only that would leverage some of the
technology that's outer from sincerely
we use java xml bindings and this this
layer what is allow us is to marshal an
immersion information from the xml files
into the object on the top of that of
that layer that is provided by Jack P we
added a els layer and over the top two
thousand years later week we use our
dress to web components and our rules
and our welcome common component and
that's how we created our our two but
you know we didn't you just want to
create a fancy XML editor we wanted to
provide some value added to our tool we
think that one of the things that are
important for the deployer is to get
something to actually get the
information that sometimes leaves in the
application container so we didn't want
to go to the application server and get
that information we wanted to provide a
way for the user to have it just there
so we open a channel like
indication channel return the
application and the application server
and we pull that information that we
think is important for the foyer to know
at the ployment i'm not only that we we
are also do some cross linking the idea
is that all these deployment descriptors
that you can have have reference within
one another and we wanted to promote a
nice and percentage so you didn't have
to fight to find out well this
information actually lives in here or
you should actually be there we try to
to hide you from that and organize
information that you have used to change
in one place and finally we we do some
verification the verification is is not
only also going and trying to apply the
constraints that the schemas and d CDs
are imposing on both sides we asked our
g3 expert and find out that there are
some validations are unnecessary that
are not part of the deployment
descriptors that are convenient for you
to look and instead of going and then
realizing later you have a problem you
can fix the problem when you are defying
your application so when you just stop
talking about the planning tool and show
you how it worked
so the first thing I want to do is load
my my application and what I have here
is an excess store is the expert stories
here actually whilst deal yesterday on
the presentation of the Gateway
presentation we have yesterday oh yeah I
tweaked it so it works for for the
purpose of this demo so what we're doing
is we love our application and what we
are doing first is when trying to do
that verification I told you we try to
do some validation and if there is we
find that there are missing missing data
in your ear we try to flag it so you
know up front that you have some
problems that you have to fix before you
deploy it so let me just give up your
brief tour of the navigation bar that I
have here in the top I have some action
for ourselves self-explanatory and I
will go a little bit more in detail on
what what canet is and why is there then
in the bottom side what we have is more
or less the structure that you will find
in your ear in this case what you see is
that we have three branches in each one
is representing a war file in your ear
or a jar file in the case for ej DS so
the idea is so for example in here I
will have a deployment descriptor that
corresponds to the entire year the
Baconian descriptor in the year call
application dot XML is the issues one
and the idea is well it just tells you
what information is inside of the of
your ear as you can see we are just
describing which modules are enjoy and
your ear and there are the same that we
are describing that are in the
navigation bar but I wanted to bring
this here because I wanted to show you
these stuff the game of stuff so what we
are doing right now is we try to provide
Gables also need some information
related to your application the content
is not sorry and sometimes it is not in
this case we don't need it
what I wanted to bring up is that we try
to put the information that you need in
one spot we didn't want to go and click
another place to find out where well if
I want to configure the gable specific
files we wanted to provide it yes sir so
another more interesting one is the a5
for the web app in here what what you
have is the deployment of scripture for
your web app if you're familiar with
with with several as you know that this
file is is the file web dot XML the list
with inside inside the web and directory
so you can change information here you
will have you see that you can have
information about the servlet-mapping or
filters and the idea that you can change
this information or if you just want to
look how it looks well it's there now
you see that i also have a servlet
section and the idea that if you have
seen a web dot XML file is that in each
in this file we do will have sections
where you are describing also your
servlet we didn't want to put all that
information in the top but rather but
rather presented as servlets in a
different link so if you wanted to
modify some information related to one
specific servlet you could do it by just
clicking do a one click so here it is
here is the stability information there
are initial parameters when you can how
if you want a low down on the star up
there are some security issues Sun
security features that you might want or
not modify but the most interesting part
comes in the ABS and why is it more
interesting well because you could I get
at least half three four you can have
three files to configure this you can
have the easy very easy big yard or XML
file you can have the gables xml files
and for your CNP you can have Gables
jdbc cmp jdbc xml files those files are
going to be interrelated and there will
be information again in the top in the
top level and it will be
information that you can have in section
for each one of your beans and so let me
just show you what i have here in the
top level and so something that is
interesting and convenient for you is
that if you set some the fold in the and
the higher level of your only archive
that information can be used as the fall
for each one or of your individual beans
this is pretty convenient because for
example if i want to go to the cmp
default settings do you see that I have
the Madonna the data data source and
data source mapping in here and the idea
is that if I go to one of my entity
beans order item is one of those and i
go to cmp be simple database mapping you
see that the data source is choosing the
default setting and there is no there is
no doubt that our source nothing i'm
saying that i need both but i'm not
selling it and I am NOT pulling it in
red because I know that you have a valid
default in their high level so what this
allows you to make changes at the high
higher level and then forget about
making changes in the individual beans
and that's that's really convenient so
if we go to account what I want to do is
now that you see we have account we have
this thing is the one who is having some
problems and I know you have some
problems because i went to the file and
delete the table name of the entity bean
and also the column names for the
attributes of the entity bean so what I
want to do now is if I go here and I go
try to go see a PVC MTV's are very smart
in you see that that you have a data
source that is not been set and the
infirm it works come where this
information is coming well if you
actually see here we click on we can
connect to the application server and
one we can act we are ready connected
but
four channels is the other guy that's
bad so let me just me get it back
sorry for that
mmm for it may seem smarter than I sense
okay just load it again so these guys
okay so let me just go back to account
and then go to the CM TV data mapping
and see also if you remember we have
pop-ups here and now we don't have them
and the idea is well if I want to make
now this changes i have to remember that
information and so that's when I say
that we added this functionality so we
could connect to the server and well now
I didn't close that's pretty cool so we
connect to the server and if we go back
to that beam and go to see the CMP
database mapping we see that now we have
the full pots and essentially what we
are saying is we are we are becoming a
j2ee java client our web avacs becomes a
gateway client and ask the server why
are you data sources and so he he I mean
they hitting prospects into self which
data sources he has and he sent us well
here's the data source you can have and
then I can choose the high person
hypersonic xq el database that it's in
jboss and then as you can see i'm also
introspecting which are the tables that
are associated to this data source so
instead of me remembering which which
table should i put here i can just go
and select it then if we go to this guy
we are going to see that we have used to
riding it we can select it we are now we
have introspective this table and see
which columns you have and then we can
update and then go to the other guys and
here we can choose password and before
I'm done you see that we have a warning
here it says that the jury original
choice Barker is not available in Joe's
JBoss server so what we what what
happens is that we went to the ear and
we find out that the choice that you
have in your ear doesn't really match to
anything that day boss can
have so what we essentially the problem
is that gay boys wants to provide a
fully qualified type and what we did is
we put your the bar car thing so we I
know that it's going to run that it's
not going to be a problem but what I'm
trying to tell you is that we try to
find out where you say well this is not
actually qualifies as a error but you
know you might look at it because if you
know what you don't want to do is like
well I just ignore whatever you tell me
it's fine i just deploy it and then
point you and then you have with your
application is crashing and then you
have to go to the to debug cycles to
find out that Oh what happens is that
jboss is not supporting the bar that I
have to provide the hoof the full
qualifying type so the idea is that we
want you before you go into the foyer
application so so we update here and
then we finally update here okay and so
now that we change that information we
click on validation the application as
you can see we went through the rules
find out that this is a ballad ear and
now we should be able to just simply
unsaved our our ear see if I have it
here
so what I'm going to do is going to save
it in the poi directory of extra store
configuration and everything is fine
okay so it was safe now so now they both
will look he periodically pools and look
that if there is something from some new
year if it is one year there it will try
to to load it and launch it so let me
just I want to show you that you can you
can see what is happening on on on jboss
so here I want to go to the wall and
then do
okay so this is the law that they both
is suspending in at some moment we
hopefully will see that they both
speaking that year and is the is
actually deploy unit so we will have to
wait second or two or three or four 15
okay
pick it up pick it up pick it up
awkward silence don't deploy other stuff
but it should it should be you some some
information and I've seen at the end
should say i deploy this thing so i know
you guys can and you go spring okay so i
think i have a problem with the network
and maybe not we'll be able to show you
this okay so it's not picking it up well
i would love to show you the exit
started seeing deploy and it is in fact
it will that's what you do to your
deployment unfortunately I won't be able
to show you I don't know why it's not
picking it up but so that's supposed you
see a big wing pirate here and that that
is the demo and sorry for that
but it's not picking it up it's gay boys
not picking up the day you okay so sorry
for that I promise that when you do this
it won't happen and that I did not reset
you so obviously we're doing a
presentation because you know it's not a
presentation unless at least one demo
decides to go haywire because that was
our deployment tool that is we think by
and large thing you're going to
appreciate most about our offerings the
UI is gonna get cleaned up a little bit
we're still working on it but it should
make deploying j2ee applications a lot
easier but once you've got your
application deployed you have to manage
it our management tools come into
component we basically given you two
parts we've done a plugin for server
admin and we have a web-based management
and configuration tool what these two
together allow you to do is manage your
jboss configurations you can start and
stop the server you can start and stop
individual services you can view and
configure those services that last 12
sounds a little bit strange but there's
reasons for configuring the services
themselves you may want to add Janet new
JMS topics and Q's made you decide that
you need to increase the number the size
of the connection pool for your cmp
stuff reasons like that you need to be
able to configure your container as well
in jboss world that's configuring the
services and at this point this is going
to give you another demo this time he's
going to walk through the management
tool so hopefully so hopefully it is we
won't have groans here but I won't
promise you that so we have the server
at mean so now you can what you can do
is you you you have your application
server as part of your server that means
part of of of the services that are
banded for my question server so you can
see that the application services as any
other service like FTP or open directory
and so you can select it and you can
stop the service to start the service as
as as you wish so if you click on there
we have the first page as well it's just
a satisfying you if the application is
running or not if you do what do you
type of configuration it has the version
of the application server etc most
interesting information you will find it
in the server in the server section
there are two to two laws that I want to
talk to you about the first one is the
boot log and this is important because
this is information is going to be
recorded by Gables when it starts the
first time so if you're having problems
with jboss not launching applications or
something like that you might want to go
to hear and see if you go to a problem
and so it's a way play a good place to
start doing some diagnostic and then the
other one in server log log it's here in
in in in server load blog but you're
going to finish all the information that
the server at wrong time is recording
something of the information is
important as like the life cycle of the
application so when he gets deployed on
on deploy the information is going to be
recorded here but also if your
application is misbehaving you will have
like runtime exceptions those problems
are going to be lost here so then again
it's a way a good place for you to start
looking for problem finally we have the
setting is part and settings are what we
have you can choose your configuration
notice already told you that you can
have a remote configuration or at UM cut
on the configuration in this case I'm
using a local configuration and it's an
especial one I create one call experts
or so and you have a a button the bottom
essentially what it does is that it
brings the management tool absolutely
i'm going through https so your username
and password configuration are not going
in clear text through the wire
here's something interesting is well
what would you first you might ask is
why we are using an authentication face
here well we have two roles you can have
anime an illustrator role and
essentially he is allowed to change the
configuration information in the
application server and he can monitor
your applications and we have a user
mode where it's just the monitoring part
that he can see so you can tell which
users can only modify configurations now
now look that I am saying I am title
route and i'm using the the user root
that I'm used that I'm putting here is
actually the route guy for this system
so what I what I trying to say is that
we are interfacing with directory
services so we don't provide a funky leo
administration capability in this tool
for your users and passwords we're
leveraging that out that already from
all that structure to the directory
services so if you already have these
services and they already are assigned
if they are bullied belong to wheel or
whatever and they are in that info
servers on an ldap servers I don't care
we will use out that information so i'm
going to log in and if i remember
passwords and will be just very cool
what okay so you have two three three
three possibilities of choosing here the
first the first two will only be seen by
the administrator and the third and also
the third one but for the users that you
only want to only care about the
applications stage you will see only the
last row so i'm going to choose the exit
store configuration and show you a
little bit about it so what here you see
is we see all the services
hopefully okay let me just change
configuration okay and it's not showing
them very good let me see if I can see
goes to the ploy sign along
configuration there you go so in what we
see we're seeing is the services all the
services without your application server
is offering and so you can select it one
of this and then look at that
information like for example I'm seeing
right now the mail service and then you
actually go and change that information
this information is going to be actually
saving the application server so you
don't have to go to your application
server look which is the proper XML
files to modify and modify their you can
do it in here we also have other other
services like tom cat that is
interesting and we're using tomcat so
you can see we have Carolina and so you
have all the attributes you can change
the attributes of your tomcat server
from here and and other stuff that you
can do is we were using a data f4 for
our the first demo idea for deployment
tool we're using a data source extra
store data source well you can create
that data source I already have it but
you actually clean that data source from
here you're clicking here you provide
information and we add that data source
that data source could point with
another database like Oracle we're using
hypersonic SQL but you can do all that
management work from here and that will
be our demo for the management
[Applause]
so that would sort of be management tool
as we said it's web-based because we
know a lot of people want to manage
these their configurations remotely and
hey you have a blackberry running over
Bluetooth theoretically you could manage
if you could actually get the bad words
as we said it's secure we use SSL and
open directory what can we say security
is a big thing for a lot of people we
didn't want to have because we were
plugging in with the open directory
stuff we didn't want have your passwords
floating around clear text so we
actually wrote a adapter for the web
object application to talk ssl I've had
at least one question about that from
people so and the first you want to talk
to on the one who did that and it allows
you to view and configured deployed
services and start and stop services
also has a few other things lets you
deploy applications and monitor deployed
applications because well this is a
large part of what management tools are
supposed to let you do hey this is going
to talk again okay so um let's so from
here I can't change the configuration i
am i'm looking at but in this case I'm
not multiplying the configuration
essentially wait does takes me to the
first page and now I can actually
monitor my applications running so we're
not running that would explain why your
your employment wasn't taking which
third we know which were we running try
stopped and started well here you can
focus the application server and you can
start it and just one button and that
great
check the log and you're having problems
trying to start you up you can have them
you know yeah like it looks like it has
not started because hey it's good see em
all up there we go okay so good man
smarter who discovers the configuration
those are not related okay so apparently
jboss has decided to drive us nuts what
you should be going to the manage thing
to the top one
okay so will fake it scoot
told him to school
who
when we should be hard
I give up okay so now well actually
given that we're running at a time
that's not such a bad thing but what you
would see if you were seeing this is his
asst would go into the same page where
he was showing you the log out and the
foot and change configuration pages he
would be able to click on the deploy
application button a sheet would come
down and let him pick which application
he wanted to deploy he hit deploy
application and the application would be
uploaded through the management tool
pushed out to the jboss configuration
written in to deploy directory and from
there everything would be as per normal
as everything would happen exactly the
way it would if you would copy a file
into that directory and now comes the
brief webobjects and j2ee section of
this you can now deploy webobjects
applications in jboss we're providing
supports building dot wars in the web
object world from xcode and those of you
who have worked with previous versions
of our products probably know that you
could in five to create a dot whoa-oh
directory that could also be used as a
dot war and deployed as an exploded
directory for the next release we're
hoping to provide the ability to deploy
as a single file archive which means
we've had to do some reworking of the NS
bundle loading stuff and for those of
you who didn't actually believe us when
we said in 51 that we were defecating
some of the NS bundle and NS Resource
Manager api's we've done it if you try
and run a bundle or run an application
which is bundled isn't archives and
you're using those api's things are
going to go drastically wrong we told
you so we also have the ability to
package our frameworks as jar archives
so we can then embed them inside other
archives loads in that way and we'll
providing support for jndi properties
what this means is that as many of you
know if you run inside a container
system properties becomes a pretty vague
and nebulous thing so we have support
for using jndi as property lookup
mechanism if we find things in
properties we find property 12 set up
there we won't actually try and access
system resources so it gives me two
places to look two way to configure your
application I think we've also added a
few extra properties just for containers
but I don't remember what they are at
this point he's new started going to
show you that we actually can and have
done this this is easy because we don't
actually have to use the tools this is
all from the command line we need a both
anyway so I'm not really we can show
them that hello world that work is
actually know about dis applications
internally ok let me let's try to to
deploy it nhej both is willing we'll see
our hello world application is the world
war ii supplication in a single
deployment directory forum will see a
drawn so what I'm going to do is just
take the hello world at war another
thing I should do is just go and copy it
over into the deploy directory of gay
bar in the same fashion as X that story
should in some moment pick it up and I
should be able to show you from the web
browser give it a shot anyway inside now
it's like a nice time to to Google
bullying's about how many were you think
this thing is gonna work so fan how many
of you think this one's going to work
together oh we have we have believers
good you like us okay so shot on see
hello world hopefully we just have not
oh this is it yeah well we had problems
earlier so we had to take this host off
the network and it looks like we may
have quite thoroughly confused its
networking capabilities apparently it's
not capable of believing that it's not
on a network but it should still allow
the loopback address to work so who
could have known you know it's a
presentation i gave us the machines 15
minutes beforehand that's why we started
late sorry so anyway so what we've shown
you or at least we told you is not
Sonja's you can develop j2ee
applications on mac OS 10 client you can
deploy them on Mac OS 10 server in jboss
that we have the best tools out there
for jboss and they'll get that every
promise did an assembly tool that will
make your life a lot easier I know you
might have looked at it and thought that
looks awfully complicated trust me trust
Stefan who's sitting over there in the
audience things cannot get worse than
Emacs and xml files and you can deploy
webobjects in jail I and I know that
some things a lot of you have been
asking for so at this point for more
information this is mostly for the dvds
later but these are the people you can
contact if you've got questions about
this presentation here's the reference
library places to go things to read this
is a little bit more interesting for us
I think this is the open source projects
that were attached with that or that
we're using that you might want to go
have a look at we've got the sourceforge
net project for jboss there are actually
two separate organizations is jboss org
which is a commercial armed group that
does development of jboss and health
consulting services for it and then
there's the open source project itself
it's where you'd find tomcat at apache
and that's where you'd find the answer
next auklet stuff